PLT-1377: centralize & correct vSphere privileges (#3807)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/data-center/vmware/permissions.md

required privileges on all required objects.

| **vSphere Object**                           | **Propagation** | **Role**       | **Condition**                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------- | --------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Target Network**                           | Yes             | _Spectro role_ |                                                                                                                                           |
| **Target Datastore**                         | Yes             | _Spectro role_ |                                                                                                                                           |
| **All ESXi hosts within the Target Cluster** | No              | _Spectro role_ |                                                                                                                                           |

> | **spectro-templates Folder**                 | Yes             | _Spectro role_ | For airgap installs, it must be manually created in advance and permissions assigned. For connected installs it is created automatically. |

Author: @karl-cardenas-coding I'd like to confirm this. I'm not aware of any automated mechanism by which this folder is created. I kinda think it's a manual process in all scenarios. But I'm probably wrong 🤷🏼‍♂️

Reviewer: You're right @TylerGillson

tags: ["data center", "vmware", "permissions"]
---

> The VMware vSphere user account that deploys host clusters and/or private cloud gateways requires all vSphere privileges
> listed in the following table on specific objects. A _Spectro root role_ must be created that contains each privilege in
> the table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The VMware vSphere user account that deploys host clusters and/or private cloud gateways requires all vSphere privileges listed in the following section on specific objects.
```

Author: Resolved in eff3548d1103ad25895211ffc3fc1076aabc3de1

### Spectro Root Role Privileges

> Select the tab for the vSphere version you are using to view the required privileges for the _Spectro root role_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _Spectro root role_ must be created that contains each privilege in the following tables. Select the tab for the vSphere version you are using to view the required privileges.
```

Author: Resolved in eff3548d1103ad25895211ffc3fc1076aabc3de1

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Spectro Root Role Assignments

The privileges associated with the _Spectro root role_ must be granted via role assignments on specific vSphere objects
for either the user or a group containing the user. Review the required role assignments to ensure that your user has
all required privileges on all required objects.

| **vSphere Object**     | **Propagation** | **Role**            | **Condition**                                                            |
| ---------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **vCenter Root**       | No              | _Spectro root role_ |                                                                          |
| **Target Datacenter**  | No              | _Spectro root role_ |                                                                          |
| **Target Cluster**     | No              | _Spectro root role_ |                                                                          |
| **Target VM Folder**   | Yes             | _Spectro root role_ |                                                                          |

> | **Distributed Switch** | No              | _Spectro root role_ | If the Target Network is a Distributed Port Group residing beneath a VDS |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Distributed Switch** | No              | _Spectro root role_ | If the Target Network is a Distributed Port Group |
```

Distributed Port Group means it's necessarily a distributed switch.

Author: Resolved in eff3548d1103ad25895211ffc3fc1076aabc3de1

### Spectro Role Privileges

> The VMware vSphere user account that deploys host clusters and/or private cloud gateways requires all vSphere privileges
> listed in the following table on specific objects. A _Spectro role_ must be created that contains each privilege in the
> following tables. A separate table lists Spectro role privileges for VMs by category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _Spectro role_ must be created that contains each privilege in the following tables. A separate table lists Spectro role privileges for VMs by category.
```

Author: Resolved in eff3548d1103ad25895211ffc3fc1076aabc3de1

| **Datastore**             | Allocate space<br />Browse datastore<br />Low level file operations<br />Remove file<br />Update virtual machine files<br />Update virtual machine metadata           |
| **Folder**                | Create folder<br />Delete folder<br />Move folder<br />Rename folder                                                                                                  |
| **Host Local Operations** | Reconfigure virtual machine                                                                                                                                           |
| **Network**               | Assign network                                                                                                                                                        |
| **Resource**              | Apply recommendation<br />Assign virtual machine to resource pool<br />Migrate powered off virtual machine<br />Migrate powered on virtual machine<br />Query vMotion |
| **Sessions**              | Validate session                                                                                                                                                      |

> | **spectro-templates**     | Read only. This is the vSphere folder created during the install. For airgap installs, you must manually create this folder.                                          |

Reviewer 2: I think this is a typo as this isn't a permission but an entity on which to apply permission

Author: Resolved in eff3548d1103ad25895211ffc3fc1076aabc3de1

| Snapshot Management   | Create snapshot<br />Remove snapshot<br />Rename snapshot<br />Revert to snapshot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | vSphere Replication   | Configure replication<br />Manage replication<br />Monitor replication                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what this table is compared to the previous one?

Author: The _Spectro role_ tables are actually all identical. We just have three of them to support the tabbed "version selection".
